---
title: Astro as an application framework
sidebar: {}
head: []
---

This decision record outlines the adoption of the Astro.js framework for the development of the personal website.

Decision made by `site owner` on `06.08.2023`.

## Context

The need for a modern, efficient, and scalable framework to build a performant and SEO-friendly personal website led to the evaluation of various JavaScript frameworks.

## Alternatives Considered

1. **React**: Offers extensive community support but requires more client-side rendering, impacting SEO and performance.
2. **Vue.js**: Simplifies UI development, but like React, relies more on client-side rendering.
3. **Next.js**: Provides server-side rendering and optimization features, but has a larger footprint and complexity.
4. **SvelteKit**: Known for creating highly efficient, compact code.
   While it is an excellent choice for a lightweight and fast UI, it locks development into Svelte ecosystem.

## Rationale

Astro.js was chosen due to its unique approach to web development, combining the best of static site generation and server-side rendering.
Its ability to deliver highly optimized, static HTML with minimal client-side JavaScript ensures fast load times and improved SEO.
Additionally, Astro.js offers flexibility in integrating with other frameworks (including Svelte) if needed for specific components, making it a versatile choice.

## Implications

The use of Astro.js is expected to enhance website performance, improve SEO rankings, and provide a better overall user experience.
It also aligns with future scalability and maintenance goals.

### References and Resources

- [Astro](https://astro.build/)
- [React](https://react.dev/)
- [Vue](https://vuejs.org/)
- [Sveltekit](https://kit.svelte.dev/)
